README.md, before:

Information Tracer API Python Library
----------------------------

This Github repo provides Python scripts to interact with the Information Tracer API.
Information Tracer is a system to collect social media posts and generate intelligence.


### Pre-requisite 
- Python 3
- You must have a valid token. If not, contact us to get a token.

### Overview our different API endpoins
1. Use Submit API to submit a query, and get a unique identifier called `id_hash256`
2. Use Status API to check status of a running query, based on `id_hash256`
3. Use the Download Endpoint to get result of a query, based on `id_hash256`

### Quick Start
1. Close this repository
2. `pip install requests pandas`
3. Update parameters in [example.py](https://github.com/zhouhanc/informationtracer/blob/main/example.py), including query, start_date, end_date, token 
4. `python example.py`


### How to build a search query

Rule 1: `AND`, `OR`, `NOT` must be all-cap. Otherwise they are treated as normal English words
Rule 2: Use parenthesis to group multiple words with AND. For example, `(Word1 AND Word2)`
Rule 3: Query limit is 512 characters. Sending a query above the limit might get empty results.

Example: `(Ukraine AND NATO) OR (Ukraine AND EU)`
Meaning: Any posts that contain "Ukraine" and "NATO" or "Ukraine" and "EU".

Example: `(Ukraine AND NATO) NOT Putin`
Meaning: Any posts that contain "Ukraine" and "NATO", without word "Putin".

Example: `from:elonmusk`
Meaning: Collect tweets created by user @elonmusk

Example: `from:elonmusk Tesla`
Meaning: Collect tweets created by user @elonmusk, and with word "tesla"


### Details about Submit API
Input: `query`, `token`, `start_date`, `end_date`

Optional input: 
`twitter_sort_by`: 'time' or 'engagement' (default is 'engagement', if not specified)
 - set `twitter_sort_by` to 'time' to collect tweets in reverse chronological order (latest to older)
 - set `twitter_sort_by` to 'engagement' to collect tweets in reverse like_count order


Output: `id_hash256` (a unique string identifier for this search)

Example:
```python
import requests
SUBMIT_URL = 'https://informationtracer.com/submit'

query = 'nvidia AND stock'
token = 'YOUR_TOKEN'
start_date = '2023-11-03'
end_date = '2023-11-08'

response = requests.post(SUBMIT_URL, 
                             timeout=10,
                             json={'query': query, 
                                   'token': token,
                                   'start_date': start_date,
                                   'end_date': end_date,
                                   'twitter_sort_by': 'engagement'
                                   }                                   
                            )
if 'id_hash256' in response.json():
    id_hash256 = response.json()['id_hash256']
```


### Details about Status API
Input: `id_hash256`, `token`
Output: json (detail below)

Example:
```python
import requests
STATUS_URL = 'https://informationtracer.com/status'

url = "{}?token={}&id_hash256={}".format(STATUS_URL, token, id_hash256)
results = requests.get(url).json()
```

__Format of output__
Because each collection can take 30-60 seconds, to send partial results to users as soon as possible, we provide a field called `tweet_preview`. Thie field is initially empty. When the system has collected 10 tweets, `tweet_preview` will contain a list of dictionaries. Please check the [result API v1 details](/result-api-old.md) for a detailed explanation of each key-value pair (`d`, `i`, `l`, ...).
```
{'status': 'started', 
 'status_percentage': '10', 
 'status_text': 'Collecting cross-platform posts...', 
 'tweet_preview': [{'d': '@Apple Unless you buy a MacBook circa 2010',
                    'i': 0, 
                    'l': 'https://twitter.com/heathdollars/status/1721998289388896312', 'n': 'heathdollars', 
                    'p': 'https://pbs.twimg.com/profile_images/1641987731181142018/tECQ8Xy1_normal.jpg', 
                    't': '2023-11-07T21:09:20', 
                    'u_d': 'join your union\n\nhttps://t.co/4sxV02E2aI', 
                    'u_id': '1000720137106866176', 
                    'u_t': '2018-05-27T12:47:27'
                    }, 
                    {...}, 
                    {...}, 
                    ...
                   ]
}
```

### Result API (new, by platform)
Input (required): `source`, `id_hash256`, `token`

`source` is data source, which can be 'twitter', 'youtube', 'reddit', 'all'

__Format of output__
Output: a pandas dataframe, which can be converted to csv, json, etc,.
- The columns should be self-explanatory
- Note that some columns (those with prefix `country_`, `sentiment_` , `account_type_` ) are only available to premium users.

```python
import pandas as pd
url = 'https://informationtracer.com/download?source={}&type=csv&id={}&token={}'.format(source, id_hash256, token)
df = pd.read_csv(url)
```


### Result API (v1, depracated)
[Result API v1 details](/result-api-old.md).


### Web Interface
- To help people visualize the information, we provide a web interface available at [https://informationtracer.com](https://informationtracer.com). 
- To visualize a query you searched recently, you can visit `https://informationtracer.com/?result={id_hash256}`. 
- Log in is required. Please contact us and we will help you register an account

### Contact / Bug Report
For bug report or any inquiry, please contact Zhouhan Chen zhouhan@safelink.network

Commit message:

make token an env variable

README.md, after:

Information Tracer API Python Library
----------------------------

This Github repo provides Python scripts to interact with the Information Tracer API.
Information Tracer is a system to collect social media posts and generate intelligence.


### Pre-requisite 
- Python 3
- You must have a valid token. If not, contact us to get a token.

### Overview our different API endpoins
1. Use Submit API to submit a query, and get a unique identifier called `id_hash256`
2. Use Status API to check status of a running query, based on `id_hash256`
3. Use the Download Endpoint to get result of a query, based on `id_hash256`

### Quick Start
1. Close this repository
2. `pip install requests pandas`
3. Update parameters in [example.py](https://github.com/zhouhanc/informationtracer/blob/main/example.py), including query, start_date, end_date, token 
4. `informationtracer_token=XXX python example.py` (or add `informationtracer_token` in bash_profile)


### How to build a search query

Rule 1: `AND`, `OR`, `NOT` must be all-cap. Otherwise they are treated as normal English words
Rule 2: Use parenthesis to group multiple words with AND. For example, `(Word1 AND Word2)`
Rule 3: Query limit is 512 characters. Sending a query above the limit might get empty results.

Example: `(Ukraine AND NATO) OR (Ukraine AND EU)`
Meaning: Any posts that contain "Ukraine" and "NATO" or "Ukraine" and "EU".

Example: `(Ukraine AND NATO) NOT Putin`
Meaning: Any posts that contain "Ukraine" and "NATO", without word "Putin".

Example: `from:elonmusk`
Meaning: Collect tweets created by user @elonmusk

Example: `from:elonmusk Tesla`
Meaning: Collect tweets created by user @elonmusk, and with word "tesla"


### Details about Submit API
Input: `query`, `token`, `start_date`, `end_date`

Optional input: 
`twitter_sort_by`: 'time' or 'engagement' (default is 'engagement', if not specified)
 - set `twitter_sort_by` to 'time' to collect tweets in reverse chronological order (latest to older)
 - set `twitter_sort_by` to 'engagement' to collect tweets in reverse like_count order


Output: `id_hash256` (a unique string identifier for this search)

Example:
```python
import requests
SUBMIT_URL = 'https://informationtracer.com/submit'

query = 'nvidia AND stock'
token = 'YOUR_TOKEN'
start_date = '2023-11-03'
end_date = '2023-11-08'

response = requests.post(SUBMIT_URL, 
                             timeout=10,
                             json={'query': query, 
                                   'token': token,
                                   'start_date': start_date,
                                   'end_date': end_date,
                                   'twitter_sort_by': 'engagement'
                                   }                                   
                            )
if 'id_hash256' in response.json():
    id_hash256 = response.json()['id_hash256']
```


### Details about Status API
Input: `id_hash256`, `token`
Output: json (detail below)

Example:
```python
import requests
STATUS_URL = 'https://informationtracer.com/status'

url = "{}?token={}&id_hash256={}".format(STATUS_URL, token, id_hash256)
results = requests.get(url).json()
```

__Format of output__
Because each collection can take 30-60 seconds, to send partial results to users as soon as possible, we provide a field called `tweet_preview`. Thie field is initially empty. When the system has collected 10 tweets, `tweet_preview` will contain a list of dictionaries. Please check the [result API v1 details](/result-api-old.md) for a detailed explanation of each key-value pair (`d`, `i`, `l`, ...).
```
{'status': 'started', 
 'status_percentage': '10', 
 'status_text': 'Collecting cross-platform posts...', 
 'tweet_preview': [{'d': '@Apple Unless you buy a MacBook circa 2010',
                    'i': 0, 
                    'l': 'https://twitter.com/heathdollars/status/1721998289388896312', 'n': 'heathdollars', 
                    'p': 'https://pbs.twimg.com/profile_images/1641987731181142018/tECQ8Xy1_normal.jpg', 
                    't': '2023-11-07T21:09:20', 
                    'u_d': 'join your union\n\nhttps://t.co/4sxV02E2aI', 
                    'u_id': '1000720137106866176', 
                    'u_t': '2018-05-27T12:47:27'
                    }, 
                    {...}, 
                    {...}, 
                    ...
                   ]
}
```

### Result API (new, by platform)
Input (required): `source`, `id_hash256`, `token`

`source` is data source, which can be 'twitter', 'youtube', 'reddit', 'all'

__Format of output__
Output: a pandas dataframe, which can be converted to csv, json, etc,.
- The columns should be self-explanatory
- Note that some columns (those with prefix `country_`, `sentiment_` , `account_type_` ) are only available to premium users.

```python
import pandas as pd
url = 'https://informationtracer.com/download?source={}&type=csv&id={}&token={}'.format(source, id_hash256, token)
df = pd.read_csv(url)
```


### Result API (v1, depracated)
[Result API v1 details](/result-api-old.md).


### Web Interface
- To help people visualize the information, we provide a web interface available at [https://informationtracer.com](https://informationtracer.com). 
- To visualize a query you searched recently, you can visit `https://informationtracer.com/?result={id_hash256}`. 
- Log in is required. Please contact us and we will help you register an account

### Contact / Bug Report
For bug report or any inquiry, please contact Zhouhan Chen zhouhan@safelink.network
